The device supports the I2C protocol. This is summarized in Figure 6. Any device that sends data on to the bus is defined to be a transmitter, and any device that reads the data to be a receiver. The device that controls the data transfer is known as the bus master, and the other as the slave device. A data transfer can only be initiated by the bus master, which will also provide the serial clock for synchronization. The device is always a slave in all communications.

4.1 Start condition
Start is identified by a falling edge of serial data (SDA) while serial clock (SCL) is stable in the high state. A start condition must precede any data transfer instruction. The device continuously monitors (except during a write cycle) serial data (SDA) and serial clock (SCL) for a start condition.
4.2 Stop condition
Stop is identified by a rising edge of serial data (SDA) while serial clock (SCL) is stable and driven high. A stop condition terminates communication between the device and the bus master. A read instruction that is followed by NoAck can be followed by a stop condition to force the device into the standby mode.
A stop condition at the end of a write instruction triggers the internal write cycle.
4.3 Data input
During data input, the device samples serial data (SDA) on the rising edge of serial clock (SCL). For correct device operation, serial data (SDA) must be stable during the rising edge of serial clock (SCL), and the serial data (SDA) signal must change only when serial clock (SCL) is driven low.
4.4 Acknowledge bit (ACK)
The acknowledge bit is used to indicate a successful byte transfer. The bus transmitter, whether it be bus master
or slave device, releases serial data (SDA) after sending eight bits of data. During the 9th clock pulse period, the receiver pulls serial data (SDA) low to acknowledge the receipt of the eight data bits.

Device addressing
To start communication between the bus master and the slave device, the bus master must initiate a Start
condition. Following this, the bus master sends the device select code, shown in Table 3 (most significant bit first).

When the device select code is received, the device only responds if the chip enable address is the same as the value on the chip enable (E2, E1, E0) inputs.
The 8th bit is the Read/Write bit (RW). This bit is set to 1 for read and 0 for write operations.
If a match occurs on the device select code, the corresponding device gives an acknowledgement on serial data (SDA) during the 9th bit time. If the device does not match the device select code, it deselects itself from the bus, and goes into standby mode.

5.1 Write operations
Following a start condition the bus master sends a device select code with the R/W bit (RW) reset to 0. The device acknowledges this, as shown in Figure 7, and waits for two address bytes. The device responds to each address byte with an acknowledge bit, and then waits for the data byte.

When the bus master generates a stop condition immediately after a data byte Ack bit (in the “10th bit” time slot), either at the end of a byte write or a page write, the internal write cycle tW is triggered. A stop condition at any other time slot does not trigger the internal write cycle.
After the stop condition and the successful completion of an internal write cycle (tW), the device internal address counter is automatically incremented to point to the next byte after the last modified byte.
During the internal write cycle, serial data (SDA) is disabled internally, and the device does not respond to any requests.
If the write control input (WC) is driven high, the write instruction is not executed and the accompanying data bytes are not acknowledged, as shown in Figure 8.

5.1.1 Byte write
After the device select code and the address bytes, the bus master sends one data byte. If the addressed location is write-protected, by write control (WC) being driven high, the device replies with NoAck, and the location is not modified. If, instead, the addressed location is not write-protected, the device replies with Ack. The bus master terminates the transfer by generating a stop condition, as shown in Figure 7.

5.1.2 Page write
The page write mode allows up to 64 byte to be written in a single write cycle, provided that they are all located
in the same page in the memory: that is, the most significant memory address bits, A15/A6, are the same. If more bytes are sent than will fit up to the end of the page, a “roll-over” occurs, i.e. the bytes exceeding the page end are written on the same page, from location 0.
The bus master sends from 1 to 64 byte of data, each of which is acknowledged by the device if write control (WC) is low. If write control (WC) is high, the contents of the addressed memory location are not modified, and each data byte is followed by a NoAck, as shown in Figure 8. After each transferred byte, the internal page address counter is incremented.
The transfer is terminated by the bus master generating a stop condition.