**IS31FL3730** 

**AUDIO MODULATED MATRIX LED DRIVER**  

**October 2024**   
**GENERAL DESCRIPTION**  

IS31FL3730 is a LED matrix driver which features an  audio modulation display mode and a general LED dot  matrix display mode. The default configuration of  IS31FL3730 is to drive a single 8×8 LED matrix.  However, IS31FL3730 may be configured to drive  either one or two 8×8, 7×9, 6×10, or 5×11 dot matrix  display(s). The intensity of any matrix picture can be  modulated by an audio signal.  

In matrix display mode, the rows and columns of the  matrix are internally scanned, requiring only one time  programming of the individual LED on or off state, thus  eliminating the need for real time system resource  utilization to perform the row and column scanning  function. 

In the general purpose mode, the ON or OFF condition  of each individual LED in the display matrix is  programmed via an I2C interface.  

IS31FL3730 is available in QFN-24 (4mm × 4mm). It  operates from 2.7V to 5.5V over the temperature range  of \-40°C to \+85°C.  

**TYPICAL APPLICATION CIRCUIT**    
**FEATURES**  

∙ 2.7V to 5.5V supply  

∙ I2C interface, automatic address increment  function  

∙ Rising edge of SDB reset I2C module  ∙ Internal reset register  

∙ Programmable single or dual 8×8, 7×9, 6×10, or  5×11 LED matrix display mode  

∙ One-time programming, internal scan  ∙ Audio modulated display intensity with digitally  programmable input gain  

∙ Internal registers to digitally adjust display  intensity  

∙ Modulate LED brightness with 128 different items  in PWM  

∙ One address pin with 4 options to allow four I2C  slave addresses  

∙ Over-temperature protection  

∙ QFN-24 (4mm × 4mm) package  

∙ RoHS & Halogen-Free Compliance  

∙ TSCA Compliance  

**APPLICATIONS**  

∙ Mobile phones and other hand-held devices for  LED display  

∙ LED in home appliances  

**Figure 1** Typical Application Circuit Dual 8×8  

**Note 1:** The IC should be placed far away from the mobile antenna in order to prevent the EMI. 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 1  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**TYPICAL APPLICATION CIRCUIT (CONTINUE)** 



**Figure 2** Typical Application Circuit Dual 7×9




**Figure 3** Typical Application Circuit Dual 6×10


**Figure 4** Typical Application Circuit Dual 5×11 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 2  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**PIN CONFIGURATION**  

| Package  | Pin Configuration (Top View)  |
| :---- | ----- |
| QFN-24  |   |

**PIN DESCRIPTION** 

| No.  | Pin  | Description  |
| :---- | :---- | :---- |
| 1  | SDA  | I2C serial data.  |
| 2  | SCL  | I2C serial clock.  |
| 3  | SDB  | Shutdown the chip when pull to low.  |
| 4  | IN  | Audio input.  |
| 5  | C\_FILT  | Filter cap for audio control.  |
| 6  | AD  | I2C address setting.  |
| 7\~10, 12  | R1\~R5  | Row control.  |
| 11  | VCC  | Power supply.  |
| 13\~15  | R6/C11, R7/C10, R8/C9  | Row/column control.  |
| 16\~19, 21\~24  | C8\~C5, C4\~C1  | Column control.  |
| 20  | GND  | Ground.  |
|   | Thermal Pad  | Connect to GND.  |

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 3  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**ORDERING INFORMATION**    
**Industrial Range: \-40°C to \+85°C**  

**Order Part No. Package QTY/Reel**  IS31FL3730-QFLS2-TR QFN-24, Lead-free 2500  

Copyright  ©  2024  Lumissil  Microsystems.  All  rights  reserved.  Lumissil  Microsystems  reserves  the  right  to  make  changes  to  this specification  and  its  products  at  any  time  without  notice.  Lumissil Microsystems  assumes  no  liability  arising  out  of  the  application  or  use  of  any  information,  products  or  services described herein. Customers are advised to obtain the latest version of this device specification before relying on any published information and  before placing orders for products.  

Lumissil Microsystems does not recommend the use of any of its products in life support applications where the failure or malfunction of the product can  reasonably be expected to cause failure of the life support system or to significantly affect its safety or effectiveness. Products are not authorized for use in  such applications unless Lumissil Microsystems receives written assurance to its satisfaction, that:  

a.) the risk of injury or damage has been minimized;    
b.) the user assume all such risks; and  

c.) potential liability of Lumissil Microsystems is adequately protected under the circumstances

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 4  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS**  

| Supply voltage, VCC  | \-0.3V \~ \+6.0V |
| :---- | :---- |
| Voltage at any input pin  | \-0.3V \~ VCC\+0.3V |
| Maximum junction temperature, TJMAX  | \+150°C  |
| Storage temperature range, TSTG  | \-65°C \~ \+150°C |
| Operating temperature range, TA\= TJ  | \-40°C \~ \+85°C |
| Package thermal resistance, junction to ambient (4-layer standard test PCB based  on JEDEC standard), θJA | 29.5°C/W  |
| ESD (HBM)   ESD (CDM) | ±1kV   ±1kV  |

**Note 2:** Stresses beyond those listed under “Absolute Maximum Ratings” may cause permanent damage to the device. These are stress ratings  only and functional operation of the device at these or any other condition beyond those indicated in the operational sections of the specifications  is not implied. Exposure to absolute maximum rating conditions for extended periods may affect device reliability.  

**ELECTRICAL CHARACTERISTICS**   
The following specifications apply for VCC\= 3.6V, TA\= 25°C, unless otherwise noted. 

| Symbol  | Parameter  | Condition  | Min.  | Typ.  | Max.  | Unit  |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| VCC  | Supply voltage  |  | 2.7  |  | 5.5  | V  |
| ICC  | Quiescent power supply  current  | VIN\= 0V, without audio input, all LEDs  off  |  | 7.0  |  | mA  |
| ISD  | Shutdown current  | VSDB\= 0V  |  | 1.7  | 3.0  | μA  |
|  |  | VSDB\= VCC, software shutdown  |  | 1.7  | 3.0  |  |
| IOUT  | Output current of R1\~R8,  C1\~C8  | Matrix display mode without audio  modulation, Lighting Effect   Register(0Dh) \= 0xxx 0000 (Note 3*)* |   | 40  |  | mA  |
|  |  | Matrix display mode with audio  modulation, VIN\= 2.5VP-P, 1kHz square  wave Audio Gain= 0dB (Note 3*)* |   | 40  |  |  |
| VHR | Current sink headroom  voltage R1\~R8, C1\~C8  | ISINK\= 320mA  |  | 300  |  | mV  |
|  | Current source headroom  voltage R1\~R8, C1\~C8  | ISOURCE\= 40mA  |  | 200  |  |  |
| tSCAN | Period of row and column  scanning (Figure 10\)  |  |  | 32  |  | µs  |
| tSCANOL | Non-overlap blanking time  during row and column  scan (Figure 10\)  | (Note 4\)  |  | 1  |  | µs  |
| **Logic Electrical Characteristics (SDA, SCL, AD)**  |  |  |  |  |  |  |
| VIL  | Logic “0” input voltage  | VCC \= 2.7V\~5.5V  |  |  | 0.4  | V  |
| VIH  | Logic “1” input voltage  | VCC \= 2.7V\~5.5V  | 1.4  |  |  | V  |
| IIL  | Logic “0” input current  | VIN \= 0V (Note 4\)  |  | 5  |  | nA  |
| IIH  | Logic “1” input current  | VIN \= VCC (Note 4\)  |  | 5  |  | nA  |

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 5  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**DIGITAL INPUT SWITCHING CHARACTERISTICS (Note 4\)** 

| Symbol  | Parameter  | Condition  | Min.  | Typ.  | Max.  | Units  |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----: |
| fSCL  | Serial-Clock frequency  |  |  |  | 400  | kHz  |
| tBUF | Bus free time between a STOP and a START  condition  |  | 1.3  |  |  | μs  |
| tHD, STA  | Hold time (repeated) START condition  |  | 0.6  |  |  | μs  |
| tSU, STA  | Repeated START condition setup time  |  | 0.6  |  |  | μs  |
| tSU, STO  | STOP condition setup time  |  | 0.6  |  |  | μs  |
| tHD, DAT  | Data hold time  | (Note 5\)  | 0  |  | 0.9  | μs  |
| tSU, DAT  | Data setup time  |  | 100  |  |  | ns  |
| tLOW  | SCL clock low period  |  | 1.3  |  |  | μs  |
| tHIGH  | SCL clock high period  |  | 0.7  |  |  | μs  |
| tR  | Rise time of both SDA and SCL signals,  receiving  | (Note 6\)  |  | 20+0.1Cb  | 300  | ns  |
| tF  | Fall time of both SDA and SCL signals,  receiving  | (Note 6\)  |  | 20+0.1Cb  | 300  | ns  |

**Note 3:** Due to the row and column scanning sequence, the average current of an individual LED in the display is IOUT/8 when configured to  drive a single matrix. When configured to drive two matrices, the average current of an individual LED in the display is IOUT/16.  **Note 4:** Guaranteed by design.  

**Note 5:** The minimum tHD, DAT measured start from VIL(max) of SCL signal. The maximum tHD,DAT has only to be met if the device does not stretch  the LOW period (tLOW) of the SCL signal. VIL(max)  

**Note 6:** Cb \= total capacitance of one bus line in pF. ISINK ≤ 6mA. tR and tF measured between 0.3×VCC and 0.7×VCC. 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 6  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**FUNCTIONAL BLOCK DIAGRAM** 

**VCC** 

**SDB** 

**SCL** 

**SDA** 

**AD** 

**C1\~C8**   
**I2C**   
**Interface Register OSC Sequence** 

**C\_FILT IN** 

**Audio**   
**Modulation** 

**Current**   
**Control** 

**Current Source**   
**Control**   
**Current Switch** 

**Current Source Current Switch** 

**R1\~R8 GND**

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 7  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**DETAILED DESCRIPTION**  

**I2C INTERFACE**  

The IS31FL3730 uses a serial bus, which conforms to  the I2C protocol, to control the chip’s functions with two  wires: SCL and SDA. The IS31FL3730 has a 7-bit slave  address (A7:A1), followed by the R/W bit, A0. Since  IS31FL3730 only supports write operations, A0 must  always be 0\. The value of bits A1 and A2 are decided by  the connection of the AD pin.  

The complete slave address is:  

**Table 1 Slave Address (Write Only):**  

| Bit  | A7:A3  | A2:A1  | A0  |
| ----- | ----- | :---: | ----- |
| Value  | 11000  | AD  | 0  |

 AD connected to GND, AD=00;  

 AD connected to VCC, AD=11;  

 AD connected to SCL, AD=01;  

 AD connected to SDA, AD=10;  

The SCL line is uni-directional. The SDA line is  bi-directional (open-collector) with a pull-up resistor  (typically 4.7kΩ). The maximum clock frequency  specified by the I2C standard is 400kHz. In this  discussion, the master is the microcontroller and the  slave is the IS31FL3730.  

The timing diagram for the I2C is shown in Figure 5\.  The SDA is latched in on the stable high level of the  SCL. When there is no interface activity, the SDA line  should be held high.  

The “START” signal is generated by lowering the SDA  signal while the SCL signal is high. The start signal will  alert all devices attached to the I2C bus to check the  incoming address against their own chip address.  

The 8-bit chip address is sent next, most significant bit  first. Each address bit must be stable while the SCL  level is high.  

**SDA** 

**tSU,DAT tHD,DAT**   
**tLOW** 

After the last bit of the chip address is sent, the master  checks for the IS31FL3730’s acknowledge. The  master releases the SDA line high (through a pull-up  resistor). Then the master sends an SCL pulse. If the  IS31FL3730 has received the address correctly, then it  holds the SDA line low during the SCL pulse. If the SDA  line is not low, then the master should send a “STOP”  signal (discussed later) and abort the transfer.  

Following acknowledge of IS31FL3730, the register  address byte is sent, most significant bit first.  IS31FL3730 must generate another acknowledge  indicating that the register address has been received.  

Then 8-bit of data byte are sent next, most significant  bit first. Each data bit should be valid while the SCL  level is stable high. After the data byte is sent, the  IS31FL3730 must generate another acknowledge to  indicate that the data was received.  

The “STOP” signal ends the transfer. To signal “STOP”,  the SDA signal goes high while the SCL signal is high.  

**Address Auto Increment**  

To write multiple bytes of data into IS31FL3730, load  the address of the data register that the first data byte  is intended for. During the IS31FL3730 acknowledge of  receiving the data byte, the internal address pointer will  increment by one. The next data byte sent to  IS31FL3730 will be placed in the new address, and so  on. The auto increment of the address will continue as  long as data continues to be written to IS31FL3730.  This feature is useful for loading the LED on/off  condition for each of the display matrices as a burst of  data. Pay careful attention when loading data for dual  LED matrix displays since the register addressing is  not continuous. 

**tSU,STA tHD,STA tSU,STO tBUF** 

**S RP tHIGH**   
**SCL** 

**tHD,STA** 

**tR tF**   
**Start Condition Restart Condition Stop Condition Start Condition Figure 5** Interface Timing




**Figure 6** Bit Transfer 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 8  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**Figure 7** Writing to IS31FL3730(Typical)  

**Figure 8** Writing to IS31FL3730(Automatic Address Increment)  

**REGISTER DEFINITION**    
**Table 2 Register Function**  

| Address  | Name  | Function  | Table  | Default  |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | :---: | ----- |
| 00h  | Configuration Register  | Set operation mode of IS31FL3730  | 3  | 0000 0000  |
| 01h\~0Bh  | Matrix 1 Data Register  | Store the on or off state of each LED  | 4  | 0000 0000  |
| 0Eh\~18h  | Matrix 2 Data Register  | Store the on or off state of each LED  | 5  |  |
| 0Ch  | Update Column Register  | Make the Data Register update the data  | \-  | xxxx xxxx  |
| 0Dh  | Lighting Effect Register  | Store the intensity control settings  | 6  | 0000 0000  |
| 19h  | PWM Register  | Modulate LED light with 128 different items  | 7  | 1000 0000 |
| FFh  | Reset Register  | Reset all registers to default value  | \-  | xxxx xxxx  |

**Table 3 00h Configuration Register**  

| Bit  | D7  | D6:D5  | D4:D3  | D2  | D1:D0 |
| ----: | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| Name  | SSD  | \-  | DM  | A\_EN  | ADM  |
| Default  | 0  | 00  | 00  | 0  | 00  |

The Configuration Register sets operation mode of  IS31FL3730.  

**SSD** Software Shutdown Enable  

0 Normal operation  

1 Software shutdown mode  

**DM** Display Mode  

00 Matrix 1 only  

01 Matrix 2 only  

11 Matrix 1 and Matrix 2  

**A\_EN** Audio Input Enable  

0 Matrix intensity is controlled by the current  setting in the Lighting Effect Register (0Dh)  1 Enable audio signal to modulate the intensity  of the matrix 

**ADM** Matrix Mode Selection  

00 8×8 dot matrix display mode  

01 7×9 dot matrix display mode  

10 6×10 dot matrix display mode  

11 5×11 dot matrix display mode 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 9  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**Table 4 01h\~0Bh Matrix 1 Data Register(C1\~C11)**  

| Bit  | D7:D0  |
| ----: | ----: |
| Name  | R8:R1  |
| Default  | 00000000  |

**Table 5 0Eh\~18h Matrix 2 Data Register(C1\~C11)**  

| Bit  | D7:D0  |
| ----: | ----: |
| Name  | R8:R1  |
| Default  | 00000000  |

The Data Registers (Matrix 1/Matrix 2\) store the on or  off state of each LED in the Matrix.  

**Rx** LED State 

0 LED off  

1 LED on  

11×2 registers are assigned to C1\~C11 columns  respectively; the LED at a particular (row, column)  location will be turned on when the respective data is  set to “1”. When configured for more than 8 column  operation, only the required numbers of LSBs are used  in each data register. For example, in 5×11 dot matrix  mode, only bits R1 thru R5 are used, and bits R6 thru  R8 are ignored.  

**0Ch Update Column Register**  

The data sent to the Data Registers will be stored in  temporary registers. A write operation of “0000 0000”  value to the Update Column Register is required to  update the Data Registers (01h\~0Bh, 0Eh\~18h).  

**Table 6 0Dh Lighting Effect Register**  

| Bit  | D7  | D6:D4  | D3:D0  |
| ----: | ----- | ----- | ----: |
| Name  | \-  | AGS  | CS  |
| Default  | 0  | 000  | 0000  |

The Lighting Effect Register stores the intensity control  settings for all of the LEDs in the Matrix.  

**AGS** Audio Input Gain Selection    
000 Gain= 0dB    
001 Gain= \+3dB    
010 Gain= \+6dB    
011 Gain= \+9dB    
100 Gain= \+12dB    
101 Gain= \+15dB    
110 Gain= \+18dB    
111 Gain= \-6dB    
**CS** Full Current Setting for Each Row Output  0000 40mA  

0001 45mA    
... ...    
0111 75mA    
1000 5mA    
1001 10mA    
... ...    
1110 35mA    
Others Not Available 

**Table 7 19h PWM Register**  

| Bit  | D7  | D6:D0  |
| ----: | ----: | ----: |
| Default  | 1  | 0000000  |

The PWM Register can modulate LED light with 128  different items.  

When the D7 set to “1”, the PWM is the 128 item.  When the D7 set to “0”, D6:D0 set the PWM from the 0  item to the 127 item.  

For example, if the data in PWM Register is 0000 0100,  then the PWM is the 4 item.


|  |
| :---- |

**Figure 9** PWM Timing Diagram  

Software shutdown and hardware shutdown operation  will reset the PWM Register. When restart the IC, the  register value will reset to 0x80 and if previous setting  is not this value, need to rewrite the PWM Register.  

**FFh Reset Register**  

Once user writes “0000 0000” to the Reset Register,  IS31FL3730 will reset all registers to default value. On  initial power-up, the IS31FL3730 registers are reset to  their default values for a blank display. 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 10  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**APPLICATION INFORMATION**  

**GENERAL PURPOSE DOT MATRIX DISPLAY MODE**  

The general purpose dot matrix display timing diagram  is shown in Figure 10\. IS31FL3730 may be configured  to drive displays of different dimensions from 8×8 to  5×11. Furthermore, IS31FL3730 may be configured to  drive one or two LED matrices of the same dimension.  Therefore, the overall row and column scan time can  vary based on the final LED matrix configuration.  

In any LED matrix configuration, a single line (column or  row) of LEDs is illuminated for 32µs before IS31FL3730  moves on to the next line of LEDs (Figure 10).  

Example 1: When the IS31FL3730 is configured in the  general purpose dual 8×8 dot matrix display mode,  column controls C8:C1 scans the eight columns of  Matrix 1 then row controls R8:R1 scans the eight rows  of Matrix 2 at a rate of 1.89kHz, or 528µs per frame.  Each line is active for 32µs. The non-overlap interval  between adjacent lines is 1µs.  

Example 2: When configured to drive a single 7×9 dot  matrix display (Matrix 1), the column controls C9:C1  scan the nine columns every 297µs. Also note that in  this case, the Data Registers’ MSB will be ignored.  

**Figure 10** Dot Matrix Display Timing Diagram  **DUAL 8**×**8 DOT MATRIX DISPLAY MODE** 

The application example in Figure 1 shows the  IS31FL3730 in the dual 8×8 LED dot matrix display  mode.  

The Matrix 1 LED columns have common cathodes and  are connected to the C1:C8 outputs. The rows are  connected to the row drivers. The Matrix 2 LED rows  have common cathodes and connected to the R1:R8.  The columns are connected to the C1:C8. Each of the  128 LEDs can be addressed separately.  

**DUAL 5**×**11 DOT MATRIX DISPLAY MODE**  

By setting the ADM bits of the Configuration Register  (00h) to “11” and the DM bits to “11”, the IS31FL3730  will operate in the dual 5×11 LED dot matrix display  mode.  

The Matrix 1 LED columns have common cathodes  and are connected to the C1:C11 outputs. The rows  are connected to the row drivers. The Matrix 2 LED  rows have common cathodes and are connected to the  R1:R5 outputs. The columns are connected to the  column drivers. Each of the 110 LEDs can be  addressed separately. The three MSBs (D7:D5) of  each Data Register (01h\~0Bh, 0Eh\~18h) are ignored.  

**DOT MATRIX DISPLAY MODE WITH AUDIO  MODULATION**  

When the IS31FL3730 operates in any of the dot  matrix modes, if the bit A\_EN in Configuration Register  (00h) is set to “1”, the brightness of LED image can be  modulated by audio signal not controlled by the CS bit  in Lighting Effect Register (0Dh).  

An external capacitor, C\_FILT is required to control the  rate at which the display intensity will change. The rate  of change is computed using the formula: ΔT \=  C×500kΩ. A value of 0.1µF provides a good effect by  allowing the display to fade from full intensity to off in  approximately 50ms. Smaller capacitance will cause  the intensity to change more quickly, and, conversely, a  larger capacitance will cause the display intensity to  change at a slower rate. 

**SHUTDOWN MODE**  

Shutdown mode can either be used as a means of  reducing power consumption or generating a flashing  display (repeatedly entering and leaving shutdown  mode). During shutdown mode all registers retain their  data.  

**Software Shutdown**  

By setting SSD bit of the Configuration Register (00h)  to “1”, the IS31FL3730 will operate in software  shutdown mode, wherein they consume only 1.7μA  (Typ.) current. When the IS31FL3730 is in software  shutdown mode, all current sources and digital drivers  are switched off, so that the matrix is blanked.  

**Hardware Shutdown**  

The chip enters hardware shutdown mode when the  SDB pin is pulled low. 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 11  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**CLASSIFICATION REFLOW PROFILES** 

| Profile Feature  | Pb-Free Assembly |
| :---- | :---- |
| **Preheat & Soak**   Temperature min (Tsmin)   Temperature max (Tsmax)   Time (Tsmin to Tsmax) (ts)  | 150°C   200°C   60-120 seconds  |
| Average ramp-up rate (Tsmax to Tp)  | 3°C/second max.  |
| Liquidous temperature (TL)   Time at liquidous (tL)  | 217°C   60-150 seconds  |
| Peak package body temperature (Tp)\*  | Max 260°C  |
| Time (tp)\*\* within 5°C of the specified   classification temperature (Tc)  | Max 30 seconds  |
| Average ramp-down rate (Tp to Tsmax)  | 6°C/second max.  |
| Time 25°C to peak temperature  | 8 minutes max.  |

**Figure 11** Classification Profile

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 12  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**PACKAGE INFORMATION**  

**QFN-24** 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 13  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**RECOMMENDED LAND PATTERN**  

**QFN-24**  

**Note:**  

1\. Land pattern complies to IPC-7351.  

2\. All dimensions in MM.  

3\. This document (including dimensions, notes & specs) is a recommendation based on typical circuit board manufacturing parameters. Since  land pattern design depends on many factors unknown (eg. user’s board manufacturing specs), user must determine suitability for use. 

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 14  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024**   
**IS31FL3730** 

**REVISION HISTORY** 

| Revision  | Detail Information  | Date  |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| A  | Initial release  | 2011.12.19  |
| B  | 1\. Add land pattern   2\. Add ESD and θJA value   3\. Update POD   4\. Add functional block   5\. Add description for 19h register   6\. EC table VIH and VIL test condition has been changed to 2.7V\~5.5V  | 2017.12.13  |
| C  | 1\. Update ISD hardware shutdown value   2\. Add Note 4 for tSCANOL   3\. Add SDB rise edge reset I2C function   4\. Update function block   5\. Update note number  | 2018.04.02  |
| D  | Update to new Lumissil logo and add RoHS  | 2024.10.24  |

Lumissil Microsystems – www.lumissil.com 15  **Rev. D, 10/24/2024** 

[image1]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABEAAAAkCAYAAABv2tHkAAAApklEQVR4Xu3QIQoCURRG4Sti0WixaDaYBKNFBYNFQY2C6A40jWAwuwL3YbDYXIEbEAyCazB43pt/wOnGe+CDmcu8+2DMzPboS3iu4iFrnNCxfBuUJPbERBqavaSFMe6ah8qWXjCV2F+WhMPZoTMKP+9hSRuf7GMaYYmrxHqoyA01yy+ZaZ61xRxvaYbhAQNZWfpjL7LADnV0ZYgijpKY53me53le7AvMuyccI94AJAAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==>

[image2]: <data:image/png;base64,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>

[image3]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABEAAAAkCAYAAABv2tHkAAAAl0lEQVR4XmNgYGCoA2JnKAaxQSAJinuB2A+IJwKxBBS/AmJTqDo4eAzEgVAsB8SaQPwSilmgalShNAh8B2IZJD4YUMUQkObnULwViBOA+CIUYwNYDXECYm4oPsoACZsPUMwJVcMHpUEA3RBLENEExC5QnAyVCIZikJwvEFsxIAL2IFRdBhSHQPWMglEwCkbBKBgFo2DEAwCQcR7WXATnNwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==>

[image4]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABEAAAAkCAYAAABv2tHkAAAAqklEQVR4Xu3QvQoBUBiH8ddkkMUNSAa70SJZlE2ZlSgfA6XsPjIZDTYTg9ENKFdgcgdGKavFc/gLu/F96recznk7vWZmYxRkhhgOMsIUbURlizmW0oed0ZJUOKC91BDHHRlZoYem7MKDvwzJ4ygnPfoeErqiLGHIAhsZhAtVRGSNrP0OSeKChLx/UpIbrIOiVOy12Ik0UEfaPosdomuvHwQ58zzP8zzPe/YAUhArvhstECsAAAAASUVORK5CYII=>

[image5]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA0AAAA+CAYAAADwBZF/AAAAkUlEQVR4XmNgYGCwAuLXQPwfimcAcS0Qzwfir0CsAcRuUPwHqgYMLkI5IGwKEwSCACBWQuKDDKG+Jk8g5gBiXpgiBjya0oG4BYjrYJJIAKemGAZIQNBeE8xPfjBJJEBQEwtMEgnANYEi9w2UA8JlQCyEUMfABsTuUAyPXLI0jYJRMApGwSgYBaNgFIyCUTBAAADoWUG+j9Et9wAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==>

[image6]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAYAAAA+CAYAAAAI5WqIAAAAOUlEQVR4XmNgYGCIAWJRBixAEF0ABgadRASIQJfgA+JNIMYcIK4F4nYovgXEW/BKjIJRMApGwQgDAPSNCXyp1x6yAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC>

[image7]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA0AAABACAYAAADBLf3OAAAAsElEQVR4Xu3QLw9BcRjF8Z+xCUzVNDpN0SSJzQuQVKIXYKJ3pcpkpjCbCf4EztnOz557tTvF9ny3T3nmbD83hBDysJQrHKArsQpMZM1DDzrShzushJVhACc585hplG4Dc7HxWfQZ8c00gxsMxfY14hNoDBd4Si3+IPxqZBvBS9rmnhjxy1SF1WEnRd1YYrSFvUxhAS1hBWjCUR7x2BD7H2I5KKVkG3me53me53neP/UG/0o6h10RaFMAAAAASUVORK5CYII=>

[image8]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAIAAABACAYAAAAwJqZDAAAAGklEQVR4XmNgoAFwBmJBEIMbiFlRGKNgeAEA3qAAdQmcXCkAAAAASUVORK5CYII=>

[image9]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA0AAABBCAYAAAAKcS5rAAAAtklEQVR4Xu3QMQ4BQRjF8VERCp0TCFFo1GoJtcYFFEpxAHEAcQCtS2i3EJ1OSSM6vUTCe7wvmcI0spV8/+S3OzuTb4sJIYQu7OUAQyhJHTYwhZksgjrJE6q2iTKYRN9sZItch65whl60V7BFamiuPdoJ7+BdaoiN4aIzethBrkMtvXn9vHa622FqaB2trRUfNbgJhzrhc0N0hCU0oS3bn4caXxSFP6zAAPpS5pDneZ7neZ7n/X0vMqM+i9kDbI0AAAAASUVORK5CYII=>

[image10]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAEAAABBCAYAAAAQTc7lAAAAJElEQVR4XmNgYGDwAGIGfzihCSLAIAhOHAYRW0GEDpwYBTAAAAjZA4R1b1LTAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC>

[image11]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAoAAAAkCAYAAACwlKv7AAAAYUlEQVR4XmNgYGAoBOJnQCwBxdOB+CUQqyLhKiBmCAXiOyAGFIQAcQ8Q34ViSagYZQpBYBEUX4CJoSsE8UGAFYq3MkAVOgJxNhCLQXEglIYBLgaIh4hXOApGwSgYBYMWAACVQBXDWNKDwgAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==>

[image12]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAUAAAADCAYAAABbNsX4AAAAEklEQVR4XmNgYGCoR8P+DEQDAHawAkwjJvRFAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC>

[image13]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAABQAAAAkCAYAAACJ8xqgAAAAoUlEQVR4Xu2QMQ5BQRRFX6EiIaHWKPX2IBLFX4FKrRWNJSgUehuxA4UNcc+4P76IUNC9k5zMy8yd+38mImIjL7KyBzmWV8tM5iw7FmZyGfe7uJN7DhbyJKe2K3vxKGSuM03aXtlHMuVjfynkl48WvilseW0WFupw38KnwqGceH4p5HFX8fzgI7m1zGTWcm7JD5xnRjKFnxcmSZIkSZIkb7gBEjMv+hh5G+UAAAAASUVORK5CYII=>

[image14]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAAYAAAAkCAYAAACqqEt1AAAARklEQVR4XmNgYGCQAuIlQJwFxd5APA+IGfYDcQuIgQTU8Er8AuJ0NAkwWA7ES9HE5EAEOxBnA3EyFHsBsTaSolEwCoY5AADI6gnGvfMFzAAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==>

[image15]: <data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA0AAAAkCAYAAABSSLCCAAAAeUlEQVR4XmNgQAUtSOwwKL4JxD5AvASKZWEKLKD4HRDrQcXsofg+lN8BxSuhfPI0hUJxExAvgoqhayqA4lMgji4Qx0JxEBB/BGIZqAZkTcuhuAjEiQBiUSjmBOJ8IPYCYisorgJidyB2hmIwIEvTKBgFo2AUjIIRCADwBh015vwzUwAAAABJRU5ErkJggg==>