# W25X40CL

1. GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The W25X40CL (4M-bit) Serial Flash memories provides a storage solution for systems with limited
space, pins and power. The 25X series offers flexibility and performance well beyond ordinary Serial
Flash devices. They are ideal for code download applications as well as storing voice, text and data.
The devices operate on a single 2.3V to 3.6V power supply with current consumption as low as 1mA
active and 1µA for power-down. All devices are offered in space-saving packages.
The W25X40CL arrays are organized into 2048 programmable pages of 256-bytes each. Up to 256
bytes can be programmed at a time. The W25X40CL have 128 erasable sectors, 16 erasable 32KB
blocks and 8 erasable 64KB blocks respectively. The small 4KB sectors allow for greater flexibility in
applications that require data and parameter storage. (See figure 2.)
The W25X40CL support the standard Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI), and a high performance dual
output as well as Dual I/O SPI: Serial Clock, Chip Select, Serial Data DI (I/O0), DO (I/O1). SPI clock
frequencies up to 104MHz are supported allowing equivalent clock rates of 208MHz when using the
Fast Read Dual Output instruction. These transfer rates are comparable to those of 8 and 16-bit
Parallel Flash memories. The Continuous Read Mode allows for efficient memory access with as few
as 16-clocks of instruction-overhead to read a 24-bit address, allowing true XIP (execute in place)
operation.
A Hold pin, Write Protect pin and programmable write protect, with top or bottom array control features,
provide further control flexibility. Additionally, the device supports JEDEC standard manufacturer and
device identification with a 64-bit Unique Serial Number.

2. FEATURES
 Family of Serial Flash Memories
– W25X40CL: 4M-bit/512K-byte (524,288)
– 256-bytes per programmable page
– Uniform erasable 4KB, 32KB & 64KB regions.
 SPI with Single / Dual Outputs / I/O
– Standard SPI: CLK, /CS, DI, DO, /WP, /Hold
– Dual SPI: CLK, /CS, IO0, IO1, /WP, /Hold
 Data Transfer up to 208M-bits / second
– Clock operation to 104MHz
–208MHz equivalent Dual SPI
– Auto-increment Read capability
 Efficient “Continuous Read Mode”
– Low Instruction overhead
– Continuous Read
– As few as 16 clocks to address memory
– Allows true XIP (execute in place) operation
 Flexible Architecture with 4KB sectors
– Uniform Sector/Block Erase (4/32/64-kbytes)
– Page program up to 256 bytes <1ms
– More than 100,000 erase/write cycles
– More than 20-year data retention
 Low Power, Wide Temperature Range
– Single 2.3V to 3.6V supply
– 1mA active current, <1µA Power-down(typ.)
– -40° to +85°C operating range
 Space Efficient Packaging
– 8-pin SOIC 150-mil / VSOP 150-mil
– 8-pin SOIC 208-mil
– 8-pad WSON 6x5-mm
– 8-pad USON 2x3-mm
– 8-pin PDIP 300-mil
– Contact Winbond for KGD and other options

4.1 Package Types
W25X40CL is offered in an 8-pin plastic 208-mil SOIC (package code SS), 150-mil width SOIC (package
code SN), 150-mil width VSOP (package code SV), 6x5-mm WSON (package code ZP), 2x3-mm USON
(package code UX) and 8-pin 300-mil PDIP (package code DA). Refer to see figures 1a and 1b,
respectively.
4.2 Chip Select (/CS)
The SPI Chip Select (/CS) pin enables and disables device operation. When /CS is high the device is
deselected and the Serial Data Output (DO, or IO0, IO1) pins are at high impedance. When deselected,
the devices power consumption will be at standby levels unless an internal erase, program or write
status register cycle is in progress. When /CS is brought low the device will be selected, power
consumption will increase to active levels and instructions can be written to and data read from the
device. After power-up, /CS must transition from high to low before a new instruction will be accepted.
The /CS input must track the VCC supply level at power-up (see “Power-up Timing and Write inhibit
threshold” and Figure 26). If needed, a pull-up resister on /CS can be used to accomplish this.
4.3 Serial Data Input, Output and IOs (DI, DO, IO0 and IO1)
The W25X40CL supports standard SPI and Dual SPI operation. Standard SPI instructions use the
unidirectional DI (input) pin to serially write instructions, addresses or data to the device on the rising
edge of the Serial Clock (CLK) input pin. Standard SPI also uses the unidirectional DO (output) to read
data or status from the device on the falling edge of CLK.
Dual SPI instructions use the bidirectional IO pins to serially write instructions, addresses or data to the
device on the rising edge of CLK and read data or status from the device on the falling edge of CLK.
4.4 Write Protect (/WP)
The Write Protect (/WP) pin can be used to prevent the Status Register from being written. Used in
conjunction with the Status Register’s Block Protect (TB, BP2, BP1 and BP0) bits and Status Register
Protect (SRP) bit, a portion or the entire memory array can be hardware protected. The /WP pin is active
low.
4.5 HOLD (/HOLD)
The Hold (/HOLD) pin allows the device to be paused while it is actively selected. When /HOLD is
brought low, while /CS is low, the DO pin will be at high impedance and signals on the DI and CLK pins
will be ignored (don’t care). When /HOLD is brought high, device operation can resume. The /HOLD
function can be useful when multiple devices are sharing the same SPI signals.
4.6 Serial Clock (CLK)
The SPI Serial Clock Input (CLK) pin provides the timing for serial input and output operations.

5.1 SPI OPERATIONS
5.1.1 Standard SPI Instructions
The W25X40CL is accessed through an SPI compatible bus consisting of four signals: Serial Clock
(CLK), Chip Select (/CS), Serial Data Input (DI) and Serial Data Output (DO). Standard SPI instructions
use the DI input pin to serially write instructions, addresses or data to the device on the rising edge of
CLK. The DO output pin is used to read data or status from the device on the falling edge CLK.
SPI bus operation Modes 0 (0, 0) and 3 (1, 1) are supported. The primary difference between Mode 0
and Mode 3 concerns the normal state of the CLK signal when the SPI bus master is in standby and
data is not being transferred to the Serial Flash. For Mode 0 the CLK signal is normally low on the falling
and rising edges of /CS. For Mode 3 the CLK signal is normally high on the falling and rising edges of
/CS.
5.1.2 Dual SPI Instructions
The W25X40CL supports Dual SPI operation when using the “Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh)” and “Fast
Read Dual I/O (BBh)” instructions. These instructions allow data to be transferred to or from the device
at two to three times the rate of ordinary Serial Flash devices. The Dual SPI Read instructions are ideal
for quickly downloading code to RAM upon power-up (code-shadowing) or for executing non-speedcritical code directly from the SPI bus (XIP). When using Dual SPI instructions, the DI and DO pins
become bidirectional I/O pins: IO0 and IO1.
5.1.3 Hold Function
The /HOLD signal allows the W25X40CL operation to be paused while it is actively selected (when /CS
is low). The /HOLD function may be useful in cases where the SPI data and clock signals are shared
with other devices. For example, consider if the page buffer was only partially written when a priority
interrupt requires use of the SPI bus. In this case the /HOLD function can save the state of the instruction
and the data in the buffer so programming can resume where it left off once the bus is available again.
To initiate a /HOLD condition, the device must be selected with /CS low. A /HOLD condition will activate
on the falling edge of the /HOLD signal if the CLK signal is already low. If the CLK is not already low the
/HOLD condition will activate after the next falling edge of CLK. The /HOLD condition will terminate on
the rising edge of the /HOLD signal if the CLK signal is already low. If the CLK is not already low the
/HOLD condition will terminate after the next falling edge of CLK.
During a /HOLD condition, the Serial Data Output (DO) is high impedance, and Serial Data Input/ Output
(DI) and Serial Clock (CLK) are ignored. The Chip Select (/CS) signal should be kept active (low) for the
full duration of the /HOLD operation to avoid resetting the internal logic state of the device.

5.2 WRITE PROTECTION
Applications that use non-volatile memory must take into consideration the possibility of noise and other
adverse system conditions that may compromise data integrity. To address this concern, the W25X40CL
provides several means to protect data from inadvertent writes.
5.2.1 Write Protect Features
 Device resets when VCC is below threshold.
 Time delay write disable after Power-up.
 Write enable/disable instructions.
 Automatic write disable after program and erase.
 Software and Hardware (/WP pin) write protection using Status Register.
 Write Protection using Power-down instruction.
Upon power-up or at power-down, the W25X40CL will maintain a reset condition while VCC is below
the threshold value of VWI, (See Power-up Timing and Voltage Levels and Figure 26). While reset, all
operations are disabled and no instructions are recognized. During power-up and after the VCC voltage
exceeds VWI, all program and erase related instructions are further disabled for a time delay of tPUW.
This includes the Write Enable, Page Program, Sector Erase, Block Erase, Chip Erase and the Write
Status Register instructions. Note that the chip select pin (/CS) must track the VCC supply level at
power-up until the VCC-min level and tVSL time delay is reached. If needed, a pull-up resister on /CS
can be used to accomplish this.

After power-up the device is automatically placed in a write-disabled state with the Status Register Write
Enable Latch (WEL) set to a 0. A Write Enable instruction must be issued before a Page Program,
Sector Erase, Chip Erase or Write Status Register instruction will be accepted. After completing a
program, erase or write instruction the Write Enable Latch (WEL) is automatically cleared to a writedisabled state of 0.
Software controlled write protection is facilitated using the Write Status Register instruction and setting
the Status Register Protect (SRP) and Block Protect (TB, BP2, BP1 and BP0) bits. These allow a portion
small as 4KB sector or the entire memory array to be configured as read only. Used in conjunction with
the Write Protect (/WP) pin, changes to the Status Register can be enabled or disabled under hardware
control. See Status Register for further information. Additionally, the Power-down instruction offers an
extra level of write protection as all instructions are ignored except for the Release Power-down
instruction.

6.1 STATUS REGISTER
6.1.1 BUSY
BUSY is a read only bit in the status register (S0) that is set to a 1 state when the device is executing a
Page Program, Sector Erase, Block Erase, Chip Erase or Write Status Register instruction. During this
time the device will ignore further instructions except for the Read Status Register instruction (see tW,
tPP, tSE, tBE, and tCE in AC Characteristics). When the program, erase or write status register instruction
has completed, the BUSY bit will be cleared to a 0 state indicating the device is ready for further
instructions.
6.1.2 Write Enable Latch (WEL)
Write Enable Latch (WEL) is a read only bit in the status register (S1) that is set to a 1 after executing a
Write Enable Instruction. The WEL status bit is cleared to a 0 when the device is write disabled. A write
disable state occurs upon power-up or after any of the following instructions finished: Write Disable,
Page Program, Sector Erase, Block Erase, Chip Erase and Write Status Register.
6.1.3 Block Protect Bits (BP2, BP1, BP0)
The Block Protect Bits (BP2, BP1 and BP0) are non-volatile read/write bits in the status register (S4,
S3, and S2) that provide Write Protection control and status. Block Protect bits can be set using the
Write Status Register Instruction (see tW in AC characteristics). All, none or a portion of the memory
array can be protected from Program and Erase instructions (see Status Register Memory Protection
table). The factory default setting for the Block Protection Bits is 0, none of the array protected. The
Block Protect bits cannot be written to if the Status Register Protect (SRP) bit is set to 1 and the Write
Protect (/WP) pin is low.
6.1.4 Top/Bottom Block Protect (TB)
The Top/Bottom bit (TB) controls if the Block Protect Bits (BP2, BP1 and BP0) protect from the Top
(TB=0) or the Bottom (TB=1) of the array as shown in the Status Register Memory Protection table. The
TB bit is non-volatile and the factory default setting is TB=0. The TB bit can be set with the Write Status
Register Instruction provided that the Write Enable instruction has been issued. The TB bit cannot be
written to if the Status Register Protect (SRP) bit is set to 1 and the Write Protect (/WP) pin is low.
6.1.5 Reserved Bits
Status register bit location S6 is reserved for future use. Current devices will read 0 for this bit location.
It is recommended to mask out the reserved bit when testing the Status Register. Doing this will ensure
compatibility with future devices.
6.1.6 Status Register Protect (SRP)
The Status Register Protect (SRP) bit is a non-volatile read/write bit in status register (S7) that can be
used in conjunction with the Write Protect (/WP) pin to disable writes to status register. When the SRP
bit is set to a 0 state (factory default) the /WP pin has no control over status register. When the SRP pin
is set to a 1, the Write Status Register instruction is locked out while the /WP pin is low. When the /WP
pin is high the Write Status Register instruction is allowed.

STATUS REGISTER(1) W25X40CL (4M-BIT) MEMORY PROTECTION
TB BP2 BP1 BP0 BLOCK(S) ADDRESSES DENSITY PORTION
x 0 0 0 NONE NONE NONE NONE
0 0 0 1 7 070000h – 07FFFFh 64KB Upper 1/8
0 0 1 0 6 and 7 060000h – 07FFFFh 128KB Upper 1/4
0 0 1 1 4 thru 7 040000h – 07FFFFh 256KB Upper 1/2
1 0 0 1 0 000000h – 00FFFFh 64KB Lower 1/8
1 0 1 0 0 and 1 000000h – 01FFFFh 128KB Lower 1/4
1 0 1 1 0 thru 3 000000h – 03FFFFh 256KB Lower 1/2
x 1 x x 0 thru 7 000000h – 07FFFFh 512KB ALL

6.2 INSTRUCTIONS
The instruction set of the W25X40CL consists of twenty basic instructions that are fully controlled
through the SPI bus (see Instruction Set table). Instructions are initiated with the falling edge of Chip
Select (/CS). The first byte of data clocked into the DI input provides the instruction code. Data on the
DI input is sampled on the rising edge of clock with most significant bit (MSB) first.
Instructions vary in length from a single byte to several bytes and may be followed by address bytes,
data bytes, dummy bytes (don’t care), and in some cases, a combination. Instructions are completed
with the rising edge of edge /CS. Clock relative timing diagrams for each instruction are included in
figures 4 through 25. All read instructions can be completed after any clocked bit. However, all
instructions that Write, Program or Erase must complete on a byte boundary (CS driven high after a full
8-bits have been clocked) otherwise the instruction will be terminated. This feature further protects the
device from inadvertent writes. Additionally, while the memory is being programmed or erased, or when
the Status Register is being written, all instructions except for Read Status Register will be ignored until
the program or erase cycle has completed.

6.2.1 Manufacturer and Device Identification
MANUFACTURER ID (M7-M0)
Winbond Serial Flash EFh
Device ID (ID7-ID0) (ID15-ID0)
Instruction ABh, 90h, 92h 9Fh
W25X40CL 12h 3013h

6.2.2 Instruction Set (1)
INSTRUCTION
NAME
BYTE 1
(CODE)
BYTE 2 BYTE 3 BYTE 4 BYTE 5 BYTE 6 N-BYTES
Write Enable 06h
Write Enable for
Volatile Status
Register
50h
Write Disable 04h
Read Status Register 05h (S7–S0)(1) (2)
Write Status Register 01h S7–S0
Read Data 03h A23–A16 A15–A8 A7–A0 (D7–D0) (Next byte) continuous
Fast Read 0Bh A23–A16 A15–A8 A7–A0 dummy (D7–D0)
(Next Byte)
continuous
Fast Read Dual
Output
3Bh A23–A16 A15–A8 A7–A0 dummy (D7-D0, …)(5)
(one byte per
4 clocks,
continuous)
Fast Read Dual I/O BBh A23-A8
(6) A7-A0, M7-
M0(6) (D7-D0, …)(5)
Page Program 02h A23–A16 A15–A8 A7–A0 (D7–D0) (Next byte)
Up to 256
bytes
Sector Erase (4KB) 20h A23–A16 A15–A8 A7–A0
Block Erase (32KB) 52h A23–A16 A15–A8 A7–A0
Block Erase (64KB) D8h A23–A16 A15–A8 A7–A0
Chip Erase C7h/60h
Power-down B9h
Release Power-down
/ Device ID
ABh dummy dummy dummy (ID7-ID0)(4)
Manufacturer/
Device ID (3) 90h dummy dummy 00h (M7-M0) (ID7-ID0)
Manufacturer/Device
ID by Dual I/O
92h A23-A8
A7-A0,
M[7:0]
(MF[7:0],
ID[7:0])
JEDEC ID 9Fh
(M7-M0)
Manufacturer
(ID15-ID8)
Memory
Type
(ID7-ID0)
Capacity
Read Unique ID 4Bh dummy dummy dummy dummy (ID63-ID0)
Read Unique
ID


6.2.3 Write Enable (06h)
The Write Enable instruction (Figure 4) sets the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register to
a 1. The WEL bit must be set prior to every Page Program, Sector Erase, Block Erase, Chip Erase and
Write Status Register instruction. The Write Enable instruction is entered by driving /CS low, shifting the
instruction code “06h” into the Data Input (DI) pin on the rising edge of CLK, and then driving /CS high.

6.2.4 Write Enable for Volatile Status Register (50h)
The non-volatile Status Register bits described in section 7.1 can also be written to as volatile bits. This
gives more flexibility to change the system configuration and memory protection schemes quickly
without waiting for the typical non-volatile bit write cycles or affecting the endurance of the Status
Register non-volatile bits. To write the volatile values into the Status Register bits, the Write Enable for
Volatile Status Register (50h) instruction must be issued prior to a Write Status Register (01h)
instruction. Write Enable for Volatile Status Register instruction (Figure 5) will not set the Write Enable
Latch (WEL) bit, it is only valid for the Write Status Register instruction to change the volatile Status
Register bit values.

6.2.5 Write Disable (04h)
The Write Disable instruction (Figure 6) resets the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register
to a 0. The Write Disable instruction is entered by driving /CS low, shifting the instruction code “04h” into
the DI pin and then driving /CS high. WEL bit is automatically reset after Power-up and upon completion
of the Write Status Register, Page Program, Sector Erase, Block Erase and Chip Erase instructions.
Write Disable instruction can also be used to invalidate the Write Enable for Volatile Status Register
instruction

6.2.6 Read Status Register (05h)
The Read Status Register instruction allows the 8-bit Status Register to be read. The instruction is
entered by driving /CS low and shifting the instruction code “05h” into the DI pin on the rising edge of
CLK. The status register bits are then shifted out on the DO pin at the falling edge of CLK with most
significant bit (MSB) first as shown in figure 6. The Status Register bits are shown in figure 3 and include
the BUSY, WEL, BP2, BP1, BP0, TB and SRP bits (see description of the Status Register earlier in this
datasheet).
The Status Register instruction may be used at any time, even while a Program, Erase or Write Status
Register cycle is in progress. This allows the BUSY status bit to be checked to determine when the cycle
is complete and if the device can accept another instruction. The Status Register can be read
continuously, as shown in Figure 7. The instruction is completed by driving /CS high.

6.2.7 Write Status Register (01h)
The Write Status Register instruction allows the Status Register to be written. A Write Enable instruction
must previously have been executed for the device to accept the Write Status Register Instruction
(Status Register bit WEL must equal 1). Once write enabled, the instruction is entered by driving /CS
low, sending the instruction code “01h”, and then writing the status register data byte as illustrated in
figure 8. The Status Register bits are shown in figure 3 and described earlier in this datasheet.
Only non-volatile Status Register bits SRP, TB, BP2, BP1 and BP0 (bits 7, 5, 4, 3 and 2) can be written
to. All other Status Register bit locations are read-only and will not be affected by the Write Status
Register instruction.
The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit of the last byte has been latched. If this is not done
the Write Status Register instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the self-timed Write
Status Register cycle will commence for a time duration of tW (See AC Characteristics). While the Write
Status Register cycle is in progress, the Read Status Register instruction may still accessed to check
the status of the BUSY bit. The BUSY bit is a 1 during the Write Status Register cycle and a 0 when the
cycle is finished and ready to accept other instructions again. After the Write Register cycle has finished
the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register will be cleared to 0.
The Write Status Register instruction allows the Block Protect bits (TB, BP2, BP1 and BP0) to be set for
protecting all, a portion, or none of the memory from erase and program instructions. Protected areas
become read-only (see Status Register Memory Protection table). The Write Status Register instruction
also allows the Status Register Protect bit (SRP) to be set. This bit is used in conjunction with the Write
Protect (/WP) pin to disable writes to the status register. When the SRP bit is set to a 0 state (factory
default) the /WP pin has no control over the status register. When the SRP pin is set to a 1, the Write
Status Register instruction is locked out while the /WP pin is low. When the /WP pin is high the Write
Status Register instruction is allowed.
During volatile Status Register write operation (50h combined with 01h), after /CS is driven high, the
Status Register bits will be refreshed to the new values within the time period of tSHSL2 (See AC
Characteristics). BUSY bit will remain 0 during the Status Register bit refresh period.

6.2.8 Read Data (03h)
The Read Data instruction allows one or more data bytes to be sequentially read from the memory. The
instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and then shifting the instruction code “03h” followed
by a 24-bit address (A23-A0) into the DI pin. The code and address bits are latched on the rising edge
of the CLK pin. After the address is received, the data byte of the addressed memory location will be
shifted out on the DO pin at the falling edge of CLK with most significant bit (MSB) first. The address is
automatically incremented to the next higher address after each byte of data is shifted out allowing for
a continuous stream of data. This means that the entire memory can be accessed with a single
instruction as long as the clock continues. The instruction is completed by driving /CS high.
The Read Data instruction sequence is shown in figure 9. If a Read Data instruction is issued while an
Erase, Program or Write cycle is in process (BUSY=1) the instruction is ignored and will not have any
effects on the current cycle. The Read Data instruction allows clock rates from D.C. to a maximum of fR
(see AC Electrical Characteristics).

6.2.9 Fast Read (0Bh)
The Fast Read instruction is similar to the Read Data instruction except that it can operate at the highest
possible frequency of FR (see AC Electrical Characteristics). This is accomplished by adding eight
“dummy” clocks after the 24-bit address as shown in figure 10. The dummy clocks allow the devices
internal circuits additional time for setting up the initial address. During the dummy clocks the data value
on the DI pin is a “don’t care”. 

6.2.10 Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh)
The Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh) instruction is similar to the standard Fast Read (0Bh) instruction
except that data is output on two pins, IO0 and IO1. This allows data to be transferred from the
W25X40CL at twice the rate of standard SPI devices. The Fast Read Dual Output instruction is ideal for
quickly downloading code from Flash to RAM upon power-up or for applications that cache codesegments to RAM for execution.
Similar to the Fast Read instruction, the Fast Read Dual Output instruction can operate at the highest
possible frequency of FR (see AC Electrical Characteristics). This is accomplished by adding eight
“dummy” clocks after the 24-bit address as shown in figure 11. The dummy clocks allow the device’s
internal circuits additional time for setting up the initial address. The input data during the dummy clocks
is “don’t care”. However, the IO0 pin should be high-impedance prior to the falling edge of the first data
out clock.

6.2.11 Fast Read Dual I/O (BBh)
The Fast Read Dual I/O (BBh) instruction allows for improved random access while maintaining two IO
pins, IO0 and IO1. It is similar to the Fast Read Dual Output (3Bh) instruction but with the capability to
input the Address bits (A23-0) two bits per clock. This reduced instruction overhead may allow for code
execution (XIP) directly from the Dual SPI in some applications.

Fast Read Dual I/O with “Continuous Read Mode”
The Fast Read Dual I/O instruction can further reduce instruction overhead through setting the
“Continuous Read Mode” bits (M7-0) after the input Address bits (A23-0), as shown in figure 12a. The
upper nibble of the (M7-4) controls the length of the next Fast Read Dual I/O instruction through the
inclusion or exclusion of the first byte instruction code. The lower nibble bits of the (M3-0) are don’t care
(“x”). However, the IO pins should be high-impedance prior to the falling edge of the first data out clock.
If the “Continuous Read Mode” bits M5-4 = (1,0), then the next Fast Read Dual I/O instruction (after /CS
is raised and then lowered) does not require the BBh instruction code, as shown in figure 12b. This
reduces the instruction sequence by eight clocks and allows the Read address to be immediately
entered after /CS is asserted low. If the “Continuous Read Mode” bits M5-4 do not equal to (1,0), the
next instruction (after /CS is raised and then lowered) requires the first byte instruction code, thus
returning to normal operation. A “Continuous Read Mode” Reset instruction can also be used to reset
(M7-0) before issuing normal instructions (See 9.2.12 for detail descriptions).

6.2.12 Continuous Read Mode Bits (M7-0)
The “Continuous Read Mode” bits are used in conjunction with the “Fast Read Dual I/O” instruction to
provide the highest random Flash memory access rate with minimum SPI instruction overhead, thus
allow true XIP (execute in place) to be performed on serial flash devices.
M7-0 need to be set by the Dual I/O Read instruction. M5-4 are used to control whether the 8-bit SPI
instruction code BBh is needed or not for the next command. When M5-4 = (1,0), the next command
will be treated same as the current Dual I/O Read command without needing the 8-bit instruction code;
when M5-4 do not equal to (1,0), the device returns to normal SPI mode, all commands can be accepted.
M7-6 and M3-0 are reserved bits for future use, either 0 or 1 values can be used.

6.2.13 Continuous Read Mode Reset (FFFFh)
Continuous Read Mode Reset instruction can be used to set M4 = 1, thus the device will release the
Continuous Read Mode and return to normal SPI operation, as shown in figure 13.
Since W25X40CL does not have a hardware Reset pin, so if the controller resets while W25X40CL is
set to Continuous Mode Read, the W25X40CL will not recognize any initial standard SPI instructions
from the controller. To address this possibility, it is recommended to issue a Continuous Read Mode
Reset instruction as the first instruction after a system Reset. Doing so will release the device from the
Continuous Read Mode and allow Standard SPI instructions to be recognized.
To reset “Continuous Read Mode” during Dual I/O operation, sixteen clocks are needed to shift in
instruction “FFFFh”.

6.2.14 Page Program (02h)
The Page Program instruction allows from one byte to 256 bytes (a page) of data to be programmed at
previously erased (FFh) memory locations. A Write Enable instruction must be executed before the
device will accept the Page Program Instruction (Status Register bit WEL = 1). The instruction is initiated
by driving the /CS pin low then shifting the instruction code “02h” followed by a 24-bit address (A23-A0)
and at least one data byte, into the DI pin. The /CS pin must be held low for the entire length of the
instruction while data is being sent to the device.
If an entire 256 byte page is to be programmed, the last address byte (the 8 least significant address
bits) should be set to 0. If the last address byte is not zero, and the number of clocks exceeds the
remaining page length, the addressing will wrap to the beginning of the page. In some cases, less than
256 bytes (a partial page) can be programmed without having any effect on other bytes within the same
page. One condition to perform a partial page program is that the number of clocks cannot exceed the
remaining page length. If more than 256 bytes are sent to the device the addressing will wrap to the
beginning of the page and overwrite previously sent data.
As with the write and erase instructions, the /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit of the last
byte has been latched. If this is not done the Page Program instruction will not be executed. After /CS
is driven high, the self-timed Page Program instruction will commence for a time duration of tpp (See
AC Characteristics). While the Page Program cycle is in progress, the Read Status Register instruction
may still be accessed for checking the status of the BUSY bit. The BUSY bit is a 1 during the Page
Program cycle and becomes a 0 when the cycle is finished and the device is ready to accept other
instructions again. After the Page Program cycle has finished the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the
Status Register is cleared to 0. The Page Program instruction will not be executed if the addressed page
is protected by the Block Protect (BP2, BP1, and BP0) bits (see Status Register Memory Protection
table).

6.2.15 Sector Erase (20h)
The Sector Erase instruction sets all memory within a specified sector (4K-bytes) to the erased state of
all 1s (FFh). A Write Enable instruction must be executed before the device will accept the Sector Erase
Instruction (Status Register bit WEL must equal 1). The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low
and shifting the instruction code “20h” followed a 24-bit sector address (A23-A0) (see Figure 2). The
Sector Erase instruction sequence is shown in figure 15.
The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit of the last byte has been latched. If this is not done
the Sector Erase instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the self-timed Sector Erase
instruction will commence for a time duration of tSE (See AC Characteristics). While the Sector Erase
cycle is in progress, the Read Status Register instruction may still be accessed for checking the status
of the BUSY bit. The BUSY bit is a 1 during the Sector Erase cycle and becomes a 0 when the cycle is
finished and the device is ready to accept other instructions again. After the Sector Erase cycle has
finished the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register is cleared to 0. The Sector Erase
instruction will not be executed if the addressed page is protected by the Block Protect (TB, BP2, BP1,
and BP0) bits (see Status Register Memory Protection table).

6.2.16 32KB Block Erase (52h)
The Block Erase instruction sets all memory within a specified block (32K-bytes) to the erased state of
all 1s (FFh). A Write Enable instruction must be executed before the device will accept the Block Erase
Instruction (Status Register bit WEL must equal 1). The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low
and shifting the instruction code “52h” followed a 24-bit block address (A23-A0) (see Figure 2). The
Block Erase instruction sequence is shown in figure 16.
The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit of the last byte has been latched. If this is not done
the Block Erase instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the self-timed Block Erase
instruction will commence for a time duration of tBE1 (See AC Characteristics). While the Block Erase
cycle is in progress, the Read Status Register instruction may still be accessed for checking the status
of the BUSY bit. The BUSY bit is a 1 during the Block Erase cycle and becomes a 0 when the cycle is
finished and the device is ready to accept other instructions again. After the Block Erase cycle has
finished the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register is cleared to 0. The Block Erase
instruction will not be executed if the addressed page is protected by the Block Protect (TB, BP2, BP1,
and BP0) bits (see Status Register Memory Protection table).

6.2.17 Block Erase (D8h)
The Block Erase instruction sets all memory within a specified block (64K-bytes) to the erased state of
all 1s (FFh). A Write Enable instruction must be executed before the device will accept the Block Erase
Instruction (Status Register bit WEL must equal 1). The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low
and shifting the instruction code “D8h” followed a 24-bit block address (A23-A0) (see Figure 2). The
Block Erase instruction sequence is shown in figure 17.
The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit of the last byte has been latched. If this is not done
the Block Erase instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the self-timed Block Erase
instruction will commence for a time duration of tBE (See AC Characteristics). While the Block Erase
cycle is in progress, the Read Status Register instruction may still be accessed for checking the status
of the BUSY bit. The BUSY bit is a 1 during the Block Erase cycle and becomes a 0 when the cycle is
finished and the device is ready to accept other instructions again. After the Block Erase cycle has
finished the Write Enable Latch (WEL) bit in the Status Register is cleared to 0. The Block Erase
instruction will not be executed if the addressed page is protected by the Block Protect (TB, BP2, BP1,
and BP0) bits (see Status Register Memory Protection table).

6.2.18 Chip Erase (C7h or 60h)
The Chip Erase instruction sets all memory within the device to the erased state of all 1s (FFh). A Write
Enable instruction must be executed before the device will accept the Chip Erase Instruction (Status
Register bit WEL must equal 1). The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and shifting the
instruction code “C7h” or “60h”. The Chip Erase instruction sequence is shown in figure 18.
The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit has been latched. If this is not done the Chip Erase
instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the self-timed Chip Erase instruction will
commence for a time duration of tCE (See AC Characteristics). While the Chip Erase cycle is in progress,
the Read Status Register instruction may still be accessed to check the status of the BUSY bit. The
BUSY bit is a 1 during the Chip Erase cycle and becomes a 0 when finished and the device is ready to
accept other instructions again. After the Chip Erase cycle has finished the Write Enable Latch (WEL)
bit in the Status Register is cleared to 0. The Chip Erase instruction will not be executed if any page is
protected by the Block Protect (TB, BP2, BP1 and BP0) bits (see Status Register Memory Protection
table).

6.2.19 Power-down (B9h)
Although the standby current during normal operation is relatively low, standby current can be further
reduced with the Power-down instruction. The lower power consumption makes the Power-down
instruction especially useful for battery powered applications (See ICC1 and ICC2 in AC
Characteristics). The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and shifting the instruction code
“B9h” as shown in figure 19.
The /CS pin must be driven high after the eighth bit has been latched. If this is not done the Power-down
instruction will not be executed. After /CS is driven high, the power-down state will entered within the
time duration of tDP (See AC Characteristics). While in the power-down state only the Release from
Power-down / Device ID instruction, which restores the device to normal operation, will be recognized.
All other instructions are ignored. This includes the Read Status Register instruction, which is always
available during normal operation. Ignoring all but one instruction makes the Power Down state a useful
condition for securing maximum write protection. The device always powers-up in the normal operation
with the standby current of ICC1.

6.2.20 Release Power-down / Device ID (ABh)
The Release from Power-down / Device ID instruction is a multi-purpose instruction. It can be used to
release the device from the power-down state, obtain the devices electronic identification (ID) number
or do both.
To release the device from the power-down state, the instruction is issued by driving the /CS pin low,
shifting the instruction code “ABh” and driving /CS high as shown in figure 20. Release from powerdown will take the time duration of tRES1 (See AC Characteristics) before the device will resume normal
operation and other instructions are accepted. The /CS pin must remain high during the tRES1 time
duration.
When used only to obtain the Device ID while not in the power-down state, the instruction is initiated by
driving the /CS pin low and shifting the instruction code “ABh” followed by 3-dummy bytes. The Device
ID bits are then shifted out on the falling edge of CLK with most significant bit (MSB) first as shown in
figure 20. The Device ID values for the W25X40CL are listed in Manufacturer and Device Identification
table. The Device ID can be read continuously. The instruction is completed by driving /CS high.
When used to release the device from the power-down state and obtain the Device ID, the instruction
is the same as previously described, and shown in figure 21, except that after /CS is driven high it must
remain high for a time duration of tRES2 (See AC Characteristics). After this time duration the device will
resume normal operation and other instructions will be accepted.
If the Release from Power-down / Device ID instruction is issued while an Erase, Program or Write cycle
is in process (when BUSY equals 1) the instruction is ignored and will not have any effects on the current
cycle

6.2.21 Read Manufacturer / Device ID (90h)
The Read Manufacturer/Device ID instruction is an alternative to the Release from Power-down/ Device
ID instruction that provides both JEDEC assigned manufacturer ID and the specific device ID.
The Read Manufacturer/Device ID instruction is very similar to the Release from Power-down / Device
ID instruction. The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and shifting the instruction code “90h”
followed by a 24-bit address (A23-A0) of 000000h. After which, the Manufacturer ID for Winbond (EFh)
and the Device ID are shifted out on the falling edge of CLK with most significant bit (MSB) first as shown
in figure 22. The Device ID values for the W25X40CL are listed in Manufacturer and Device Identification
table. If the 24-bit address is initially set to 000001h the Device ID will be read first and then followed by
the Manufacturer ID. The Manufacturer and Device IDs can be read continuously, alternating from one
to the other. The instruction is completed by driving /CS high.

6.2.22 Read Manufacturer / Device ID Dual I/O (92h)
The Manufacturer / Device ID Dual I/O instruction is an alternative to the Read Manufacturer/Device ID
instruction that provides both the JEDEC assigned manufacturer ID and the specific device ID at 2x
speed.
The Read Manufacturer / Device ID Dual I/O instruction is similar to the Fast Read Dual I/O instruction.
The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and shifting the instruction code “92h” followed by
a 24-bit address (A23-A0) of 000000h, 8-bit Continuous Read Mode Bits, with the capability to input the
Address bits two bits per clock. After which, the Manufacturer ID for Winbond (EFh) and the Device ID
are shifted out 2 bits per clock on the falling edge of CLK with most significant bits (MSB) first as shown
in figure 28. The Device ID values for the W25X40CL are listed in Manufacturer and Device Identification
table. If the 24-bit address is initially set to 000001h the Device ID will be read first and then followed by
the Manufacturer ID. The Manufacturer and Device IDs can be read continuously, alternating from one
to the other. The instruction is completed by driving /CS high.

6.2.23 Read Unique ID Number (4Bh)
The Read Unique ID Number instruction accesses a factory-set read-only 64-bit number that is unique
to each W25X40CL device. The ID number can be used in conjunction with user software methods to
help prevent copying or cloning of a system. The Read Unique ID instruction is initiated by driving the
/CS pin low and shifting the instruction code “4Bh” followed by a four bytes of dummy clocks. After
which, the 64-bit ID is shifted out on the falling edge of CLK as shown in figure 24.

6.2.24 JEDEC ID (9Fh)
For compatibility reasons, the W25X40CL provides several instructions to electronically determine the
identity of the device. The Read JEDEC ID instruction is compatible with the JEDEC standard for SPI
compatible serial memories that was adopted in 2003.
The instruction is initiated by driving the /CS pin low and shifting the instruction code “9Fh”. The JEDEC
assigned Manufacturer ID byte for Winbond (EFh) and two Device ID bytes, Memory Type (ID15-ID8)
and Capacity (ID7-ID0) are then shifted out on the falling edge of CLK with most significant bit (MSB)
first as shown in figure 25. For memory type and capacity values refer to Manufacturer and Device
Identification table.