
# SERIAL INTERFACE

The DAC8564 has a 3-wire serial interface (SYNC, SCLK, and DIN) compatible with SPI, QSPI, and Microwire interface standards, as well as most DSPs. See the Serial Write Operation timing diagram for an example of a typical write sequence.
The DAC8564 input shift register is 24 bits wide, consisting of eight control bits (DB23 to DB16) and 16 data bits (DB15 to DB0). All 24 bits of data are loaded into the DAC under the control of the serial clock input, SCLK. DB23 (MSB) is the first bit that is loaded into the DAC shift register, and is followed by the rest of the 24-bit word pattern, left-aligned. This configuration means that the first 24 bits of data are latched into the shift register and any further clocking of data is ignored. The DAC8564 receives all 24 bits of data and decodes the first eight bits to determine the DAC operating/control mode. The 16 bits of data that follow are decoded by the DAC to determine the equivalent analog output. The data format is straight binary with all '0's corresponding to 0V output and all '1's corresponding to full-scale output (that is, VREF – 1 LSB).

The write sequence begins by bringing the SYNC line low. Data from the DIN line are clocked into the 24-bit shift register on each falling edge of SCLK. The serial clock frequency can be as high as 50MHz, making the DAC8564 compatible with high-speed DSPs. On the 24th falling edge of the serial clock, the last data bit is clocked into the shift register and the shift register locks. Further clocking does not change the shift register data. Once 24 bits are locked into the shift register, the eight MSBs are used as control bits and the 16 LSBs are used as data. After receiving the 24th falling clock edge, the DAC8564 decodes the eight control bits and 16 data bits to perform the required function, without waiting for a SYNC rising edge. A new write sequence starts at the next falling edge of SYNC. A rising edge of SYNC before the 24-bit sequence is complete resets the SPI interface; no data transfer occurs. After the 24th falling edge of SCLK is received, the SYNC line may be kept LOW or brought HIGH. In either case, the minimum delay time from the 24th falling SCLK edge to the next falling SYNC edge must be met in order to properly begin the next cycle. To assure the lowest power consumption of the device, care should be taken that the levels are as close to each rail as possible. Refer to the Typical Characteristics section for Figure 36, Figure 57, and Figure 79 (Supply Current vs Logic Input Voltage).

# IOVDD AND VOLTAGE TRANSLATORS

The IOVDD pin powers the digital input structures of the DAC8564. For single-supply operation, it can be tied to AVDD. For dual-supply operation, the IOVDD pin provides interface flexibility with various CMOS logic families and should be connected to the logic supply of the system. Analog circuits and internal logic of the DAC8564 use AVDD as the supply voltage. The external logic high inputs translate to AVDD by level shifters. These level shifters use the IOVDD voltage as a reference to shift the incoming logic HIGH levels to AVDD. IOVDD is ensured to operate from 2.7V to 5.5V regardless of the AVDD voltage, assuring compatibility with various logic families. Although specified down to 2.7V, IOVDD operates at as low as 1.8V with degraded timing and temperature performance. For lowest power consumption, logic VIH levels should be as close as possible to IOVDD, and logic VIL levels should be as close as possible to GND voltages.

# INPUT SHIFT REGISTER

The input shift register (SR) of the DAC8564 is 24 bits wide, as shown in Table 4, and consists of eight control bits (DB23 and DB16) and 16 data bits (DB15 to DB0). The first two control bits (DB23 and DB22) are the address match bits. The DAC8564 offers hardware-enabled addressing capability, allowing a single host to talk to up to four DAC8564s through a single SPI bus without any glue logic, enabling up to 16-channel operation. The state of DB23 should match the state of pin A1; similarly, the state of DB22 should match the state of pin A0. If there is no match, the control command and the data (DB21...DB0) are ignored by the DAC8564. That is, if there is no match, the DAC8564 is not addressed. Address matching can be overridden by the broadcast update.

LD1 (DB21) and LD0 (DB20) control the loading of each analog output with the specified 16-bit data value or power-down command. Bit DB19 must always be '0'. The DAC channel select bits (DB18, DB17) control the destination of the data (or power-down command) from DAC A through DAC D. The final control bit, PD0 (DB16), selects the power-down mode of the DAC8564 channels as well as the power-down mode of the internal reference.
The DAC8564 supports a number of different load commands. The load commands include broadcast commands to address all the DAC8564s on an SPI bus. The load commands are summarized as follows:
DB21 = 0 and DB20 = 0: Single-channel store. The data buffer corresponding to a DAC selected by DB18 and DB17 updates with the contents of SR data (or power-down).

DB21 = 0 and DB20 = 1: Single-channel update.
The data buffer and DAC register corresponding to a DAC selected by DB18 and DB17 update with the contents of SR data (or power-down).
DB21 = 1 and DB20 = 0: Simultaneous update. A channel selected by DB18 and DB17 updates with the SR data; simultaneously, all the other channels update with previously stored data (or power-down) from data buffers.
DB21 = 1 and DB20 = 1: Broadcast update. All the DAC8564s on the SPI bus respond, regardless of address matching. If DB18 = 0, SR data are ignored and any channels from all DAC8564s update with previously stored data (or power-down). If DB18 = 1, SR data (or power-down) update any channels of all DAC8564s in the system. This broadcast update feature allows the simultaneous update of up to 16 channels.
Refer to Table 5 for more information.


# SYNC INTERRUPT

In a normal write sequence, the SYNC line stays low for at least 24 falling edges of SCLK and the addressed DAC register updates on the 24th falling edge. However, if SYNC is brought high before the 24th falling edge, it acts as an interrupt to the write sequence; the shift register resets and the write sequence is discarded. Neither an update of the data buffer contents, DAC register contents, nor a change in the operating mode occurs (as shown in Figure 95).

# POWER-ON RESET TO ZERO-SCALE

The DAC8564 contains a power-on reset circuit that controls the output voltage during power-up. On power-up, the DAC registers are filled with zeros and the output voltages are set to zero-scale; they remain that way until a valid write sequence and load command are made to the respective DAC channel. The power-on reset is useful in applications where it is important to know the state of the output of each DAC while the device is in the process of powering up.
No device pin should be brought high before power is applied to the device. The internal reference is powered on by default and remains that way until a valid reference-change command is executed.


# LDAC FUNCTIONALITY

The DAC8564 offers both a software and hardware simultaneous update function. The DAC double-buffered architecture has been designed so that new data can be entered for each DAC without disturbing the analog outputs.
DAC8564 data updates are synchronized with the falling edge of the 24th SCLK cycle, which follows a falling edge of SYNC. For such synchronous updates, the LDAC pin is not required and it must be connected to GND permanently. The LDAC pin is used as a positive edge triggered timing signal for asynchronous DAC updates. To do an LDAC operation, single-channel store(s) should be done (loading DAC buffers) by setting LD0 and LD1 to '0'. Multiple single-channel updates can be done in order to set different channel buffers to desired values and then make a rising edge on LDAC. Data buffers of all channels must be loaded with desired data before an LDAC rising edge. After a low-to-high LDAC transition, all DACs are simultaneously updated with the contents of the corresponding data buffers. If the contents of a data buffer are not changed by the serial interface, the corresponding DAC output remains unchanged after the LDAC trigger.

# ENABLE PIN

For normal operation, the enable pin must be driven to a logic low. If the enable pin is driven high, the DAC8564 stops listening to the serial port. However, SCLK, SYNC, and DIN must not be kept floating, but must be at some logic level. This feature can be useful for applications that share the same serial port.